Tailscale on a Proxmox host · Tailscale Docs
[Aperture beta is now available. Start building with AI safely in minutes.READ MORE -\>](https://tailscale.com/blog/aperture-public-beta)
# Tailscale on a Proxmox host
Last validated: Jan 5, 2026
Proxmox is a popular open-source solution for running virtual machines and containers, built on top of a Debian Linux platform.
[Installing Tailscale](/docs/install/linux) lets you access the Proxmox console from anywhere, without needing to open firewall ports or manually configure a VPN.
## [Enable HTTPS access to the Proxmox Web UI](#enable-https-access-to-the-proxmox-web-ui)
The Proxmox Web UI is served over HTTPS by default on port `8006`. The default certificate is self-signed, so you will need to accept the certificate warning in your browser. With Tailscale installed on the Proxmox host, you can generate a valid certificate, removing the need to accept the warning.
The following script will use Tailscale to generate a certificate for the Proxmox host and install it in the Proxmox certificate store.
This script has a `jq` dependency. You may need to install `jq` on your device.
With `apt`:
```
`apt -y install jq
`
```
With `brew`:
```
`brew install jq
`
```
```
`#!/bin/bash
NAME="$(tailscale status --json | jq '.Self.DNSName | .[:-1]' -r)"
tailscale cert "${NAME}"
pvenode cert set "${NAME}.crt" "${NAME}.key" --force --restart
`
```
(Optional) You may want to run this script as a `cron` job to ensure the certificate is kept up to date.
1. Save this script to a file. For example: `update\_cert.sh`.
2. Change the file permissions to make it executable. For example:
```
`chmod +x update\_cert.sh
`
```
3. Create a `cron` job entry. For example, every 12 hours:
```
`0 \*/12 \* \* \* /path/to/update\_cert.sh
`
```
Another option is to use [Tailscale Serve](/docs/reference/tailscale-cli/serve) to proxy the Proxmox Web UI. This will let you access the Web UI using a valid certificate, automatically generated by Serve. In addition, you can omit the port number from the URL, as Serve can proxy the request on the default HTTPS port `443`.
```
`sudo tailscale serve --bg https+insecure://localhost:8006
`
```
We recommend using the `--bg` flag to allow Tailscale Serve to run as a background process.
## [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting)
For troubleshooting information, refer to [Troubleshooting Proxmox issues](/docs/reference/troubleshooting/containers/proxmox).
On this page
* [Enable HTTPS access to the Proxmox Web UI](#enable-https-access-to-the-proxmox-web-ui)
* [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting)
Scroll to top