Embeddings | OpenAI API Reference
[Skip to content](#_top)
[API Reference](/api/reference/go)
Copy Markdown
Open in **Claude**
Open in **ChatGPT**
Open in **Cursor**
**Copy Markdown**
**View as Markdown**
# Embeddings
Get a vector representation of a given input that can be easily consumed by machine learning models and algorithms.
##### [Create embeddings](/api/reference/go/resources/embeddings/methods/create)
client.Embeddings.New(ctx, body) (\*[CreateEmbeddingResponse](</api/reference/go/resources/embeddings#(resource) embeddings > (model) create_embedding_response > (schema)>), error)
POST/embeddings
##### ModelsExpand Collapse
type CreateEmbeddingResponse struct{…}
Data [][Embedding](</api/reference/go/resources/embeddings#(resource) embeddings > (model) embedding > (schema)>)
The list of embeddings generated by the model.
Embedding []float64
The embedding vector, which is a list of floats. The length of vector depends on the model as listed in the [embedding guide](https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/embeddings).
[](<#(resource) embeddings > (model) embedding > (schema) > (property) embedding>)
Index int64
The index of the embedding in the list of embeddings.
[](<#(resource) embeddings > (model) embedding > (schema) > (property) index>)
Object Embedding
The object type, which is always “embedding”.
[](<#(resource) embeddings > (model) embedding > (schema) > (property) object>)
[](<#(resource) embeddings > (model) create_embedding_response > (schema) > (property) data>)
Model string
The name of the model used to generate the embedding.
[](<#(resource) embeddings > (model) create_embedding_response > (schema) > (property) model>)
Object List
The object type, which is always “list”.
[](<#(resource) embeddings > (model) create_embedding_response > (schema) > (property) object>)
Usage CreateEmbeddingResponseUsage
The usage information for the request.
PromptTokens int64
The number of tokens used by the prompt.
[](<#(resource) embeddings > (model) create_embedding_response > (schema) > (property) usage > (property) prompt_tokens>)
TotalTokens int64
The total number of tokens used by the request.
[](<#(resource) embeddings > (model) create_embedding_response > (schema) > (property) usage > (property) total_tokens>)
[](<#(resource) embeddings > (model) create_embedding_response > (schema) > (property) usage>)
[](<#(resource) embeddings > (model) create_embedding_response > (schema)>)
type Embedding struct{…}
Represents an embedding vector returned by embedding endpoint.
Embedding []float64
The embedding vector, which is a list of floats. The length of vector depends on the model as listed in the [embedding guide](https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/embeddings).
[](<#(resource) embeddings > (model) embedding > (schema) > (property) embedding>)
Index int64
The index of the embedding in the list of embeddings.
[](<#(resource) embeddings > (model) embedding > (schema) > (property) index>)
Object Embedding
The object type, which is always “embedding”.
[](<#(resource) embeddings > (model) embedding > (schema) > (property) object>)
[](<#(resource) embeddings > (model) embedding > (schema)>)
type EmbeddingModel string
One of the following:
const EmbeddingModelTextEmbeddingAda002 [EmbeddingModel](</api/reference/go/resources/embeddings#(resource) embeddings > (model) embedding_model > (schema)>) = "text-embedding-ada-002"
[](<#(resource) embeddings > (model) embedding_model > (schema) > (member) 0>)
const EmbeddingModelTextEmbedding3Small [EmbeddingModel](</api/reference/go/resources/embeddings#(resource) embeddings > (model) embedding_model > (schema)>) = "text-embedding-3-small"
[](<#(resource) embeddings > (model) embedding_model > (schema) > (member) 1>)
const EmbeddingModelTextEmbedding3Large [EmbeddingModel](</api/reference/go/resources/embeddings#(resource) embeddings > (model) embedding_model > (schema)>) = "text-embedding-3-large"
[](<#(resource) embeddings > (model) embedding_model > (schema) > (member) 2>)
[](<#(resource) embeddings > (model) embedding_model > (schema)>)