Chat | OpenAI API Reference
[Skip to content](#_top)
[API Reference](/api/reference/terraform)
Copy Markdown
Open in **Claude**
Open in **ChatGPT**
Open in **Cursor**
**Copy Markdown**
**View as Markdown**
# Chat
#### ChatCompletions
Given a list of messages comprising a conversation, the model will return a response.
#### resource openai\_chat\_completion
##### required Expand Collapse
model: String
Model ID used to generate the response, like `gpt-4o` or `o3`. OpenAI
offers a wide range of models with different capabilities, performance
characteristics, and price points. Refer to the [model guide](https://platform.openai.com/docs/models)
to browse and compare available models.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) model>)
messages: List[Attributes]
A list of messages comprising the conversation so far. Depending on the
[model](https://platform.openai.com/docs/models) you use, different message types (modalities) are
supported, like [text](https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/text-generation),
[images](https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/vision), and [audio](https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/audio).
content?: String
The contents of the developer message.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) messages > (attribute) content>)
role: String
The role of the messages author, in this case `developer`.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) messages > (attribute) role>)
name?: String
An optional name for the participant. Provides the model information to differentiate between participants of the same role.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) messages > (attribute) name>)
audio?: Attributes
Data about a previous audio response from the model.
[Learn more](https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/audio).
id: String
Unique identifier for a previous audio response from the model.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) messages > (attribute) audio > (attribute) id>)
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) messages > (attribute) audio>)
Deprecatedfunction\_call?: Attributes
Deprecated and replaced by `tool\_calls`. The name and arguments of a function that should be called, as generated by the model.
arguments: String
The arguments to call the function with, as generated by the model in JSON format. Note that the model does not always generate valid JSON, and may hallucinate parameters not defined by your function schema. Validate the arguments in your code before calling your function.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) messages > (attribute) function_call > (attribute) arguments>)
name: String
The name of the function to call.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) messages > (attribute) function_call > (attribute) name>)
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) messages > (attribute) function_call>)
refusal?: String
The refusal message by the assistant.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) messages > (attribute) refusal>)
tool\_calls?: List[Attributes]
The tool calls generated by the model, such as function calls.
id: String
The ID of the tool call.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) messages > (attribute) tool_calls > (attribute) id>)
function?: Attributes
The function that the model called.
arguments: String
The arguments to call the function with, as generated by the model in JSON format. Note that the model does not always generate valid JSON, and may hallucinate parameters not defined by your function schema. Validate the arguments in your code before calling your function.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) messages > (attribute) tool_calls > (attribute) function > (attribute) arguments>)
name: String
The name of the function to call.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) messages > (attribute) tool_calls > (attribute) function > (attribute) name>)
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) messages > (attribute) tool_calls > (attribute) function>)
type: String
The type of the tool. Currently, only `function` is supported.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) messages > (attribute) tool_calls > (attribute) type>)
custom?: Attributes
The custom tool that the model called.
input: String
The input for the custom tool call generated by the model.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) messages > (attribute) tool_calls > (attribute) custom > (attribute) input>)
name: String
The name of the custom tool to call.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) messages > (attribute) tool_calls > (attribute) custom > (attribute) name>)
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) messages > (attribute) tool_calls > (attribute) custom>)
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) messages > (attribute) tool_calls>)
tool\_call\_id?: String
Tool call that this message is responding to.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) messages > (attribute) tool_call_id>)
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) messages>)
##### optional Expand Collapse
Deprecatedfunction\_call?: String
Deprecated in favor of `tool\_choice`.
Controls which (if any) function is called by the model.
`none` means the model will not call a function and instead generates a
message.
`auto` means the model can pick between generating a message or calling a
function.
Specifying a particular function via `{"name": "my\_function"}` forces the
model to call that function.
`none` is the default when no functions are present. `auto` is the default
if functions are present.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) function_call>)
max\_completion\_tokens?: Int64
An upper bound for the number of tokens that can be generated for a completion, including visible output tokens and [reasoning tokens](https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/reasoning).
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) max_completion_tokens>)
Deprecatedmax\_tokens?: Int64
The maximum number of [tokens](/tokenizer) that can be generated in the
chat completion. This value can be used to control
[costs](https://openai.com/api/pricing/) for text generated via API.
This value is now deprecated in favor of `max\_completion\_tokens`, and is
not compatible with [o-series models](https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/reasoning).
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) max_tokens>)
prompt\_cache\_key?: String
Used by OpenAI to cache responses for similar requests to optimize your cache hit rates. Replaces the `user` field. [Learn more](https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/prompt-caching).
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) prompt_cache_key>)
prompt\_cache\_retention?: String
The retention policy for the prompt cache. Set to `24h` to enable extended prompt caching, which keeps cached prefixes active for longer, up to a maximum of 24 hours. [Learn more](https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/prompt-caching#prompt-cache-retention).
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) prompt_cache_retention>)
safety\_identifier?: String
A stable identifier used to help detect users of your application that may be violating OpenAI’s usage policies.
The IDs should be a string that uniquely identifies each user, with a maximum length of 64 characters. We recommend hashing their username or email address, in order to avoid sending us any identifying information. [Learn more](https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/safety-best-practices#safety-identifiers).
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) safety_identifier>)
Deprecatedseed?: Int64
This feature is in Beta.
If specified, our system will make a best effort to sample deterministically, such that repeated requests with the same `seed` and parameters should return the same result.
Determinism is not guaranteed, and you should refer to the `system\_fingerprint` response parameter to monitor changes in the backend.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) seed>)
stream?: Bool
If set to true, the model response data will be streamed to the client
as it is generated using [server-sent events](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Server-sent_events/Using_server-sent_events#Event_stream_format).
See the [Streaming section below](https://platform.openai.com/docs/api-reference/chat/streaming)
for more information, along with the [streaming responses](https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/streaming-responses)
guide for more information on how to handle the streaming events.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) stream>)
tool\_choice?: String
Controls which (if any) tool is called by the model.
`none` means the model will not call any tool and instead generates a message.
`auto` means the model can pick between generating a message or calling one or more tools.
`required` means the model must call one or more tools.
Specifying a particular tool via `{"type": "function", "function": {"name": "my\_function"}}` forces the model to call that tool.
`none` is the default when no tools are present. `auto` is the default if tools are present.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) tool_choice>)
top\_logprobs?: Int64
An integer between 0 and 20 specifying the number of most likely tokens to
return at each token position, each with an associated log probability.
`logprobs` must be set to `true` if this parameter is used.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) top_logprobs>)
Deprecateduser?: String
This field is being replaced by `safety\_identifier` and `prompt\_cache\_key`. Use `prompt\_cache\_key` instead to maintain caching optimizations.
A stable identifier for your end-users.
Used to boost cache hit rates by better bucketing similar requests and to help OpenAI detect and prevent abuse. [Learn more](https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/safety-best-practices#safety-identifiers).
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) user>)
logit\_bias?: Map[Int64]
Modify the likelihood of specified tokens appearing in the completion.
Accepts a JSON object that maps tokens (specified by their token ID in the
tokenizer) to an associated bias value from -100 to 100. Mathematically,
the bias is added to the logits generated by the model prior to sampling.
The exact effect will vary per model, but values between -1 and 1 should
decrease or increase likelihood of selection; values like -100 or 100
should result in a ban or exclusive selection of the relevant token.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) logit_bias>)
modalities?: List[String]
Output types that you would like the model to generate.
Most models are capable of generating text, which is the default:
`["text"]`
The `gpt-4o-audio-preview` model can also be used to
[generate audio](https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/audio). To request that this model generate
both text and audio responses, you can use:
`["text", "audio"]`
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) modalities>)
audio?: Attributes
Parameters for audio output. Required when audio output is requested with
`modalities: ["audio"]`. [Learn more](https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/audio).
format: String
Specifies the output audio format. Must be one of `wav`, `mp3`, `flac`,
`opus`, or `pcm16`.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) audio > (attribute) format>)
voice: String
The voice the model uses to respond. Supported built-in voices are
`alloy`, `ash`, `ballad`, `coral`, `echo`, `fable`, `nova`, `onyx`,
`sage`, `shimmer`, `marin`, and `cedar`. You may also provide a
custom voice object with an `id`, for example `{ "id": "voice\_1234" }`.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) audio > (attribute) voice>)
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) audio>)
Deprecatedfunctions?: List[Attributes]
Deprecated in favor of `tools`.
A list of functions the model may generate JSON inputs for.
name: String
The name of the function to be called. Must be a-z, A-Z, 0-9, or contain underscores and dashes, with a maximum length of 64.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) functions > (attribute) name>)
description?: String
A description of what the function does, used by the model to choose when and how to call the function.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) functions > (attribute) description>)
parameters?: Map[JSON]
The parameters the functions accepts, described as a JSON Schema object. See the [guide](https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/function-calling) for examples, and the [JSON Schema reference](https://json-schema.org/understanding-json-schema/) for documentation about the format.
Omitting `parameters` defines a function with an empty parameter list.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) functions > (attribute) parameters>)
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) functions>)
prediction?: Attributes
Static predicted output content, such as the content of a text file that is
being regenerated.
content: String
The content that should be matched when generating a model response.
If generated tokens would match this content, the entire model response
can be returned much more quickly.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) prediction > (attribute) content>)
type: String
The type of the predicted content you want to provide. This type is
currently always `content`.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) prediction > (attribute) type>)
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) prediction>)
stream\_options?: Attributes
Options for streaming response. Only set this when you set `stream: true`.
include\_obfuscation?: Bool
When true, stream obfuscation will be enabled. Stream obfuscation adds
random characters to an `obfuscation` field on streaming delta events to
normalize payload sizes as a mitigation to certain side-channel attacks.
These obfuscation fields are included by default, but add a small amount
of overhead to the data stream. You can set `include\_obfuscation` to
false to optimize for bandwidth if you trust the network links between
your application and the OpenAI API.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) stream_options > (attribute) include_obfuscation>)
include\_usage?: Bool
If set, an additional chunk will be streamed before the `data: [DONE]`
message. The `usage` field on this chunk shows the token usage statistics
for the entire request, and the `choices` field will always be an empty
array.
All other chunks will also include a `usage` field, but with a null
value. **NOTE:** If the stream is interrupted, you may not receive the
final usage chunk which contains the total token usage for the request.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) stream_options > (attribute) include_usage>)
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) stream_options>)
frequency\_penalty?: Float64
Number between -2.0 and 2.0. Positive values penalize new tokens based on
their existing frequency in the text so far, decreasing the model’s
likelihood to repeat the same line verbatim.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) frequency_penalty>)
logprobs?: Bool
Whether to return log probabilities of the output tokens or not. If true,
returns the log probabilities of each output token returned in the
`content` of `message`.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) logprobs>)
n?: Int64
How many chat completion choices to generate for each input message. Note that you will be charged based on the number of generated tokens across all of the choices. Keep `n` as `1` to minimize costs.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) n>)
parallel\_tool\_calls?: Bool
Whether to enable [parallel function calling](https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/function-calling#configuring-parallel-function-calling) during tool use.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) parallel_tool_calls>)
presence\_penalty?: Float64
Number between -2.0 and 2.0. Positive values penalize new tokens based on
whether they appear in the text so far, increasing the model’s likelihood
to talk about new topics.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) presence_penalty>)
reasoning\_effort?: String
Constrains effort on reasoning for
[reasoning models](https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/reasoning).
Currently supported values are `none`, `minimal`, `low`, `medium`, `high`, and `xhigh`. Reducing
reasoning effort can result in faster responses and fewer tokens used
on reasoning in a response.
* `gpt-5.1` defaults to `none`, which does not perform reasoning. The supported reasoning values for `gpt-5.1` are `none`, `low`, `medium`, and `high`. Tool calls are supported for all reasoning values in gpt-5.1.
* All models before `gpt-5.1` default to `medium` reasoning effort, and do not support `none`.
* The `gpt-5-pro` model defaults to (and only supports) `high` reasoning effort.
* `xhigh` is supported for all models after `gpt-5.1-codex-max`.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) reasoning_effort>)
service\_tier?: String
Specifies the processing type used for serving the request.
* If set to ‘auto’, then the request will be processed with the service tier configured in the Project settings. Unless otherwise configured, the Project will use ‘default’.
* If set to ‘default’, then the request will be processed with the standard pricing and performance for the selected model.
* If set to ‘[flex](https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/flex-processing)’ or ‘[priority](https://openai.com/api-priority-processing/)’, then the request will be processed with the corresponding service tier.
* When not set, the default behavior is ‘auto’.
When the `service\_tier` parameter is set, the response body will include the `service\_tier` value based on the processing mode actually used to serve the request. This response value may be different from the value set in the parameter.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) service_tier>)
stop?: String
Not supported with latest reasoning models `o3` and `o4-mini`.
Up to 4 sequences where the API will stop generating further tokens. The
returned text will not contain the stop sequence.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) stop>)
store?: Bool
Whether or not to store the output of this chat completion request for
use in our [model distillation](https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/distillation) or
[evals](https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/evals) products.
Supports text and image inputs. Note: image inputs over 8MB will be dropped.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) store>)
temperature?: Float64
What sampling temperature to use, between 0 and 2. Higher values like 0.8 will make the output more random, while lower values like 0.2 will make it more focused and deterministic.
We generally recommend altering this or `top\_p` but not both.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) temperature>)
top\_p?: Float64
An alternative to sampling with temperature, called nucleus sampling,
where the model considers the results of the tokens with top\_p probability
mass. So 0.1 means only the tokens comprising the top 10% probability mass
are considered.
We generally recommend altering this or `temperature` but not both.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) top_p>)
verbosity?: String
Constrains the verbosity of the model’s response. Lower values will result in
more concise responses, while higher values will result in more verbose responses.
Currently supported values are `low`, `medium`, and `high`.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) verbosity>)
response\_format?: Attributes
An object specifying the format that the model must output.
Setting to `{ "type": "json\_schema", "json\_schema": {...} }` enables
Structured Outputs which ensures the model will match your supplied JSON
schema. Learn more in the [Structured Outputs
guide](https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/structured-outputs).
Setting to `{ "type": "json\_object" }` enables the older JSON mode, which
ensures the message the model generates is valid JSON. Using `json\_schema`
is preferred for models that support it.
type: String
The type of response format being defined. Always `text`.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) response_format > (attribute) type>)
json\_schema?: Attributes
Structured Outputs configuration options, including a JSON Schema.
name: String
The name of the response format. Must be a-z, A-Z, 0-9, or contain
underscores and dashes, with a maximum length of 64.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) response_format > (attribute) json_schema > (attribute) name>)
description?: String
A description of what the response format is for, used by the model to
determine how to respond in the format.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) response_format > (attribute) json_schema > (attribute) description>)
schema?: Map[JSON]
The schema for the response format, described as a JSON Schema object.
Learn how to build JSON schemas [here](https://json-schema.org/).
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) response_format > (attribute) json_schema > (attribute) schema>)
strict?: Bool
Whether to enable strict schema adherence when generating the output.
If set to true, the model will always follow the exact schema defined
in the `schema` field. Only a subset of JSON Schema is supported when
`strict` is `true`. To learn more, read the [Structured Outputs
guide](https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/structured-outputs).
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) response_format > (attribute) json_schema > (attribute) strict>)
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) response_format > (attribute) json_schema>)
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) response_format>)
tools?: List[Attributes]
A list of tools the model may call. You can provide either
[custom tools](https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/function-calling#custom-tools) or
[function tools](https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/function-calling).
function?: Attributes
name: String
The name of the function to be called. Must be a-z, A-Z, 0-9, or contain underscores and dashes, with a maximum length of 64.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) tools > (attribute) function > (attribute) name>)
description?: String
A description of what the function does, used by the model to choose when and how to call the function.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) tools > (attribute) function > (attribute) description>)
parameters?: Map[JSON]
The parameters the functions accepts, described as a JSON Schema object. See the [guide](https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/function-calling) for examples, and the [JSON Schema reference](https://json-schema.org/understanding-json-schema/) for documentation about the format.
Omitting `parameters` defines a function with an empty parameter list.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) tools > (attribute) function > (attribute) parameters>)
strict?: Bool
Whether to enable strict schema adherence when generating the function call. If set to true, the model will follow the exact schema defined in the `parameters` field. Only a subset of JSON Schema is supported when `strict` is `true`. Learn more about Structured Outputs in the [function calling guide](https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/function-calling).
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) tools > (attribute) function > (attribute) strict>)
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) tools > (attribute) function>)
type: String
The type of the tool. Currently, only `function` is supported.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) tools > (attribute) type>)
custom?: Attributes
Properties of the custom tool.
name: String
The name of the custom tool, used to identify it in tool calls.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) tools > (attribute) custom > (attribute) name>)
description?: String
Optional description of the custom tool, used to provide more context.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) tools > (attribute) custom > (attribute) description>)
format?: Attributes
The input format for the custom tool. Default is unconstrained text.
type: String
Unconstrained text format. Always `text`.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) tools > (attribute) custom > (attribute) format > (attribute) type>)
grammar?: Attributes
Your chosen grammar.
definition: String
The grammar definition.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) tools > (attribute) custom > (attribute) format > (attribute) grammar > (attribute) definition>)
syntax: String
The syntax of the grammar definition. One of `lark` or `regex`.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) tools > (attribute) custom > (attribute) format > (attribute) grammar > (attribute) syntax>)
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) tools > (attribute) custom > (attribute) format > (attribute) grammar>)
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) tools > (attribute) custom > (attribute) format>)
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) tools > (attribute) custom>)
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) tools>)
web\_search\_options?: Attributes
This tool searches the web for relevant results to use in a response.
Learn more about the [web search tool](https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/tools-web-search?api-mode=chat).
search\_context\_size?: String
High level guidance for the amount of context window space to use for the
search. One of `low`, `medium`, or `high`. `medium` is the default.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) web_search_options > (attribute) search_context_size>)
user\_location?: Attributes
Approximate location parameters for the search.
approximate: Attributes
Approximate location parameters for the search.
city?: String
Free text input for the city of the user, e.g. `San Francisco`.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) web_search_options > (attribute) user_location > (attribute) approximate > (attribute) city>)
country?: String
The two-letter
[ISO country code](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_3166-1) of the user,
e.g. `US`.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) web_search_options > (attribute) user_location > (attribute) approximate > (attribute) country>)
region?: String
Free text input for the region of the user, e.g. `California`.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) web_search_options > (attribute) user_location > (attribute) approximate > (attribute) region>)
timezone?: String
The [IANA timezone](https://timeapi.io/documentation/iana-timezones)
of the user, e.g. `America/Los\_Angeles`.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) web_search_options > (attribute) user_location > (attribute) approximate > (attribute) timezone>)
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) web_search_options > (attribute) user_location > (attribute) approximate>)
type: String
The type of location approximation. Always `approximate`.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) web_search_options > (attribute) user_location > (attribute) type>)
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) web_search_options > (attribute) user_location>)
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) web_search_options>)
metadata?: Map[String]
Set of 16 key-value pairs that can be attached to an object. This can be
useful for storing additional information about the object in a structured
format, and querying for objects via API or the dashboard.
Keys are strings with a maximum length of 64 characters. Values are strings
with a maximum length of 512 characters.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) metadata>)
##### computed Expand Collapse
id: String
A unique identifier for the chat completion.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) id>)
created: Int64
The Unix timestamp (in seconds) of when the chat completion was created.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) created>)
object: String
The object type, which is always `chat.completion`.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) object>)
Deprecatedsystem\_fingerprint: String
This fingerprint represents the backend configuration that the model runs with.
Can be used in conjunction with the `seed` request parameter to understand when backend changes have been made that might impact determinism.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) system_fingerprint>)
choices: List[Attributes]
A list of chat completion choices. Can be more than one if `n` is greater than 1.
finish\_reason: String
The reason the model stopped generating tokens. This will be `stop` if the model hit a natural stop point or a provided stop sequence,
`length` if the maximum number of tokens specified in the request was reached,
`content\_filter` if content was omitted due to a flag from our content filters,
`tool\_calls` if the model called a tool, or `function\_call` (deprecated) if the model called a function.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) choices > (attribute) finish_reason>)
index: Int64
The index of the choice in the list of choices.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) choices > (attribute) index>)
logprobs: Attributes
Log probability information for the choice.
content: List[Attributes]
A list of message content tokens with log probability information.
token: String
The token.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) choices > (attribute) logprobs > (attribute) content > (attribute) token>)
bytes: List[Int64]
A list of integers representing the UTF-8 bytes representation of the token. Useful in instances where characters are represented by multiple tokens and their byte representations must be combined to generate the correct text representation. Can be `null` if there is no bytes representation for the token.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) choices > (attribute) logprobs > (attribute) content > (attribute) bytes>)
logprob: Float64
The log probability of this token, if it is within the top 20 most likely tokens. Otherwise, the value `-9999.0` is used to signify that the token is very unlikely.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) choices > (attribute) logprobs > (attribute) content > (attribute) logprob>)
top\_logprobs: List[Attributes]
List of the most likely tokens and their log probability, at this token position. In rare cases, there may be fewer than the number of requested `top\_logprobs` returned.
token: String
The token.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) choices > (attribute) logprobs > (attribute) content > (attribute) top_logprobs > (attribute) token>)
bytes: List[Int64]
A list of integers representing the UTF-8 bytes representation of the token. Useful in instances where characters are represented by multiple tokens and their byte representations must be combined to generate the correct text representation. Can be `null` if there is no bytes representation for the token.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) choices > (attribute) logprobs > (attribute) content > (attribute) top_logprobs > (attribute) bytes>)
logprob: Float64
The log probability of this token, if it is within the top 20 most likely tokens. Otherwise, the value `-9999.0` is used to signify that the token is very unlikely.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) choices > (attribute) logprobs > (attribute) content > (attribute) top_logprobs > (attribute) logprob>)
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) choices > (attribute) logprobs > (attribute) content > (attribute) top_logprobs>)
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) choices > (attribute) logprobs > (attribute) content>)
refusal: List[Attributes]
A list of message refusal tokens with log probability information.
token: String
The token.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) choices > (attribute) logprobs > (attribute) refusal > (attribute) token>)
bytes: List[Int64]
A list of integers representing the UTF-8 bytes representation of the token. Useful in instances where characters are represented by multiple tokens and their byte representations must be combined to generate the correct text representation. Can be `null` if there is no bytes representation for the token.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) choices > (attribute) logprobs > (attribute) refusal > (attribute) bytes>)
logprob: Float64
The log probability of this token, if it is within the top 20 most likely tokens. Otherwise, the value `-9999.0` is used to signify that the token is very unlikely.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) choices > (attribute) logprobs > (attribute) refusal > (attribute) logprob>)
top\_logprobs: List[Attributes]
List of the most likely tokens and their log probability, at this token position. In rare cases, there may be fewer than the number of requested `top\_logprobs` returned.
token: String
The token.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) choices > (attribute) logprobs > (attribute) refusal > (attribute) top_logprobs > (attribute) token>)
bytes: List[Int64]
A list of integers representing the UTF-8 bytes representation of the token. Useful in instances where characters are represented by multiple tokens and their byte representations must be combined to generate the correct text representation. Can be `null` if there is no bytes representation for the token.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) choices > (attribute) logprobs > (attribute) refusal > (attribute) top_logprobs > (attribute) bytes>)
logprob: Float64
The log probability of this token, if it is within the top 20 most likely tokens. Otherwise, the value `-9999.0` is used to signify that the token is very unlikely.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) choices > (attribute) logprobs > (attribute) refusal > (attribute) top_logprobs > (attribute) logprob>)
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) choices > (attribute) logprobs > (attribute) refusal > (attribute) top_logprobs>)
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) choices > (attribute) logprobs > (attribute) refusal>)
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) choices > (attribute) logprobs>)
message: Attributes
A chat completion message generated by the model.
content: String
The contents of the message.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) choices > (attribute) message > (attribute) content>)
refusal: String
The refusal message generated by the model.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) choices > (attribute) message > (attribute) refusal>)
role: String
The role of the author of this message.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) choices > (attribute) message > (attribute) role>)
annotations: List[Attributes]
Annotations for the message, when applicable, as when using the
[web search tool](https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/tools-web-search?api-mode=chat).
type: String
The type of the URL citation. Always `url\_citation`.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) choices > (attribute) message > (attribute) annotations > (attribute) type>)
url\_citation: Attributes
A URL citation when using web search.
end\_index: Int64
The index of the last character of the URL citation in the message.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) choices > (attribute) message > (attribute) annotations > (attribute) url_citation > (attribute) end_index>)
start\_index: Int64
The index of the first character of the URL citation in the message.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) choices > (attribute) message > (attribute) annotations > (attribute) url_citation > (attribute) start_index>)
title: String
The title of the web resource.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) choices > (attribute) message > (attribute) annotations > (attribute) url_citation > (attribute) title>)
url: String
The URL of the web resource.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) choices > (attribute) message > (attribute) annotations > (attribute) url_citation > (attribute) url>)
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) choices > (attribute) message > (attribute) annotations > (attribute) url_citation>)
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) choices > (attribute) message > (attribute) annotations>)
audio: Attributes
If the audio output modality is requested, this object contains data
about the audio response from the model. [Learn more](https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/audio).
id: String
Unique identifier for this audio response.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) choices > (attribute) message > (attribute) audio > (attribute) id>)
data: String
Base64 encoded audio bytes generated by the model, in the format
specified in the request.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) choices > (attribute) message > (attribute) audio > (attribute) data>)
expires\_at: Int64
The Unix timestamp (in seconds) for when this audio response will
no longer be accessible on the server for use in multi-turn
conversations.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) choices > (attribute) message > (attribute) audio > (attribute) expires_at>)
transcript: String
Transcript of the audio generated by the model.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) choices > (attribute) message > (attribute) audio > (attribute) transcript>)
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) choices > (attribute) message > (attribute) audio>)
Deprecatedfunction\_call: Attributes
Deprecated and replaced by `tool\_calls`. The name and arguments of a function that should be called, as generated by the model.
arguments: String
The arguments to call the function with, as generated by the model in JSON format. Note that the model does not always generate valid JSON, and may hallucinate parameters not defined by your function schema. Validate the arguments in your code before calling your function.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) choices > (attribute) message > (attribute) function_call > (attribute) arguments>)
name: String
The name of the function to call.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) choices > (attribute) message > (attribute) function_call > (attribute) name>)
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) choices > (attribute) message > (attribute) function_call>)
tool\_calls: List[Attributes]
The tool calls generated by the model, such as function calls.
id: String
The ID of the tool call.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) choices > (attribute) message > (attribute) tool_calls > (attribute) id>)
function: Attributes
The function that the model called.
arguments: String
The arguments to call the function with, as generated by the model in JSON format. Note that the model does not always generate valid JSON, and may hallucinate parameters not defined by your function schema. Validate the arguments in your code before calling your function.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) choices > (attribute) message > (attribute) tool_calls > (attribute) function > (attribute) arguments>)
name: String
The name of the function to call.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) choices > (attribute) message > (attribute) tool_calls > (attribute) function > (attribute) name>)
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) choices > (attribute) message > (attribute) tool_calls > (attribute) function>)
type: String
The type of the tool. Currently, only `function` is supported.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) choices > (attribute) message > (attribute) tool_calls > (attribute) type>)
custom: Attributes
The custom tool that the model called.
input: String
The input for the custom tool call generated by the model.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) choices > (attribute) message > (attribute) tool_calls > (attribute) custom > (attribute) input>)
name: String
The name of the custom tool to call.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) choices > (attribute) message > (attribute) tool_calls > (attribute) custom > (attribute) name>)
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) choices > (attribute) message > (attribute) tool_calls > (attribute) custom>)
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) choices > (attribute) message > (attribute) tool_calls>)
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) choices > (attribute) message>)
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) choices>)
usage: Attributes
Usage statistics for the completion request.
completion\_tokens: Int64
Number of tokens in the generated completion.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) usage > (attribute) completion_tokens>)
prompt\_tokens: Int64
Number of tokens in the prompt.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) usage > (attribute) prompt_tokens>)
total\_tokens: Int64
Total number of tokens used in the request (prompt + completion).
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) usage > (attribute) total_tokens>)
completion\_tokens\_details: Attributes
Breakdown of tokens used in a completion.
accepted\_prediction\_tokens: Int64
When using Predicted Outputs, the number of tokens in the
prediction that appeared in the completion.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) usage > (attribute) completion_tokens_details > (attribute) accepted_prediction_tokens>)
audio\_tokens: Int64
Audio input tokens generated by the model.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) usage > (attribute) completion_tokens_details > (attribute) audio_tokens>)
reasoning\_tokens: Int64
Tokens generated by the model for reasoning.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) usage > (attribute) completion_tokens_details > (attribute) reasoning_tokens>)
rejected\_prediction\_tokens: Int64
When using Predicted Outputs, the number of tokens in the
prediction that did not appear in the completion. However, like
reasoning tokens, these tokens are still counted in the total
completion tokens for purposes of billing, output, and context window
limits.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) usage > (attribute) completion_tokens_details > (attribute) rejected_prediction_tokens>)
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) usage > (attribute) completion_tokens_details>)
prompt\_tokens\_details: Attributes
Breakdown of tokens used in the prompt.
audio\_tokens: Int64
Audio input tokens present in the prompt.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) usage > (attribute) prompt_tokens_details > (attribute) audio_tokens>)
cached\_tokens: Int64
Cached tokens present in the prompt.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) usage > (attribute) prompt_tokens_details > (attribute) cached_tokens>)
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) usage > (attribute) prompt_tokens_details>)
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform resource) > (attribute) usage>)
### openai\_chat\_completion
Terraform
HTTP
HTTP
TypeScript
TypeScript
Python
Python
Java
Java
Go
Go
Ruby
Ruby
Terraform
Terraform
```
`resource "openai\_chat\_completion" "example\_chat\_completion" {
messages = [{
content = "string"
role = "developer"
name = "name"
}]
model = "gpt-5.4"
audio = {
format = "wav"
voice = "string"
}
frequency\_penalty = -2
function\_call = "none"
functions = [{
name = "name"
description = "description"
parameters = {
foo = "bar"
}
}]
logit\_bias = {
foo = 0
}
logprobs = true
max\_completion\_tokens = 0
max\_tokens = 0
metadata = {
foo = "string"
}
modalities = ["text"]
n = 1
parallel\_tool\_calls = true
prediction = {
content = "string"
type = "content"
}
presence\_penalty = -2
prompt\_cache\_key = "prompt-cache-key-1234"
prompt\_cache\_retention = "in\_memory"
reasoning\_effort = "none"
response\_format = {
type = "text"
}
safety\_identifier = "safety-identifier-1234"
seed = -9007199254740991
service\_tier = "auto"
stop = \<\<EOT
EOT
store = true
stream = false
stream\_options = {
include\_obfuscation = true
include\_usage = true
}
temperature = 1
tool\_choice = "none"
tools = [{
function = {
name = "name"
description = "description"
parameters = {
foo = "bar"
}
strict = true
}
type = "function"
}]
top\_logprobs = 0
top\_p = 1
user = "user-1234"
verbosity = "low"
web\_search\_options = {
search\_context\_size = "low"
user\_location = {
approximate = {
city = "city"
country = "country"
region = "region"
timezone = "timezone"
}
type = "approximate"
}
}
}
`
```
#### data openai\_chat\_completion
##### optional Expand Collapse
completion\_id?: String
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-single) > (attribute) completion_id>)
find\_one\_by?: Attributes
metadata?: Map[String]
A list of metadata keys to filter the Chat Completions by. Example:
`metadata[key1]=value1&metadata[key2]=value2`
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-single) > (attribute) find_one_by > (attribute) metadata>)
model?: String
The model used to generate the Chat Completions.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-single) > (attribute) find_one_by > (attribute) model>)
order?: String
Sort order for Chat Completions by timestamp. Use `asc` for ascending order or `desc` for descending order. Defaults to `asc`.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-single) > (attribute) find_one_by > (attribute) order>)
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-single) > (attribute) find_one_by>)
##### computed Expand Collapse
id: String
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-single) > (attribute) id>)
created: Int64
The Unix timestamp (in seconds) of when the chat completion was created.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-single) > (attribute) created>)
model: String
The model used for the chat completion.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-single) > (attribute) model>)
object: String
The object type, which is always `chat.completion`.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-single) > (attribute) object>)
service\_tier: String
Specifies the processing type used for serving the request.
* If set to ‘auto’, then the request will be processed with the service tier configured in the Project settings. Unless otherwise configured, the Project will use ‘default’.
* If set to ‘default’, then the request will be processed with the standard pricing and performance for the selected model.
* If set to ‘[flex](https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/flex-processing)’ or ‘[priority](https://openai.com/api-priority-processing/)’, then the request will be processed with the corresponding service tier.
* When not set, the default behavior is ‘auto’.
When the `service\_tier` parameter is set, the response body will include the `service\_tier` value based on the processing mode actually used to serve the request. This response value may be different from the value set in the parameter.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-single) > (attribute) service_tier>)
Deprecatedsystem\_fingerprint: String
This fingerprint represents the backend configuration that the model runs with.
Can be used in conjunction with the `seed` request parameter to understand when backend changes have been made that might impact determinism.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-single) > (attribute) system_fingerprint>)
choices: List[Attributes]
A list of chat completion choices. Can be more than one if `n` is greater than 1.
finish\_reason: String
The reason the model stopped generating tokens. This will be `stop` if the model hit a natural stop point or a provided stop sequence,
`length` if the maximum number of tokens specified in the request was reached,
`content\_filter` if content was omitted due to a flag from our content filters,
`tool\_calls` if the model called a tool, or `function\_call` (deprecated) if the model called a function.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-single) > (attribute) choices > (attribute) finish_reason>)
index: Int64
The index of the choice in the list of choices.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-single) > (attribute) choices > (attribute) index>)
logprobs: Attributes
Log probability information for the choice.
content: List[Attributes]
A list of message content tokens with log probability information.
token: String
The token.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-single) > (attribute) choices > (attribute) logprobs > (attribute) content > (attribute) token>)
bytes: List[Int64]
A list of integers representing the UTF-8 bytes representation of the token. Useful in instances where characters are represented by multiple tokens and their byte representations must be combined to generate the correct text representation. Can be `null` if there is no bytes representation for the token.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-single) > (attribute) choices > (attribute) logprobs > (attribute) content > (attribute) bytes>)
logprob: Float64
The log probability of this token, if it is within the top 20 most likely tokens. Otherwise, the value `-9999.0` is used to signify that the token is very unlikely.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-single) > (attribute) choices > (attribute) logprobs > (attribute) content > (attribute) logprob>)
top\_logprobs: List[Attributes]
List of the most likely tokens and their log probability, at this token position. In rare cases, there may be fewer than the number of requested `top\_logprobs` returned.
token: String
The token.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-single) > (attribute) choices > (attribute) logprobs > (attribute) content > (attribute) top_logprobs > (attribute) token>)
bytes: List[Int64]
A list of integers representing the UTF-8 bytes representation of the token. Useful in instances where characters are represented by multiple tokens and their byte representations must be combined to generate the correct text representation. Can be `null` if there is no bytes representation for the token.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-single) > (attribute) choices > (attribute) logprobs > (attribute) content > (attribute) top_logprobs > (attribute) bytes>)
logprob: Float64
The log probability of this token, if it is within the top 20 most likely tokens. Otherwise, the value `-9999.0` is used to signify that the token is very unlikely.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-single) > (attribute) choices > (attribute) logprobs > (attribute) content > (attribute) top_logprobs > (attribute) logprob>)
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-single) > (attribute) choices > (attribute) logprobs > (attribute) content > (attribute) top_logprobs>)
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-single) > (attribute) choices > (attribute) logprobs > (attribute) content>)
refusal: List[Attributes]
A list of message refusal tokens with log probability information.
token: String
The token.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-single) > (attribute) choices > (attribute) logprobs > (attribute) refusal > (attribute) token>)
bytes: List[Int64]
A list of integers representing the UTF-8 bytes representation of the token. Useful in instances where characters are represented by multiple tokens and their byte representations must be combined to generate the correct text representation. Can be `null` if there is no bytes representation for the token.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-single) > (attribute) choices > (attribute) logprobs > (attribute) refusal > (attribute) bytes>)
logprob: Float64
The log probability of this token, if it is within the top 20 most likely tokens. Otherwise, the value `-9999.0` is used to signify that the token is very unlikely.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-single) > (attribute) choices > (attribute) logprobs > (attribute) refusal > (attribute) logprob>)
top\_logprobs: List[Attributes]
List of the most likely tokens and their log probability, at this token position. In rare cases, there may be fewer than the number of requested `top\_logprobs` returned.
token: String
The token.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-single) > (attribute) choices > (attribute) logprobs > (attribute) refusal > (attribute) top_logprobs > (attribute) token>)
bytes: List[Int64]
A list of integers representing the UTF-8 bytes representation of the token. Useful in instances where characters are represented by multiple tokens and their byte representations must be combined to generate the correct text representation. Can be `null` if there is no bytes representation for the token.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-single) > (attribute) choices > (attribute) logprobs > (attribute) refusal > (attribute) top_logprobs > (attribute) bytes>)
logprob: Float64
The log probability of this token, if it is within the top 20 most likely tokens. Otherwise, the value `-9999.0` is used to signify that the token is very unlikely.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-single) > (attribute) choices > (attribute) logprobs > (attribute) refusal > (attribute) top_logprobs > (attribute) logprob>)
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-single) > (attribute) choices > (attribute) logprobs > (attribute) refusal > (attribute) top_logprobs>)
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-single) > (attribute) choices > (attribute) logprobs > (attribute) refusal>)
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-single) > (attribute) choices > (attribute) logprobs>)
message: Attributes
A chat completion message generated by the model.
content: String
The contents of the message.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-single) > (attribute) choices > (attribute) message > (attribute) content>)
refusal: String
The refusal message generated by the model.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-single) > (attribute) choices > (attribute) message > (attribute) refusal>)
role: String
The role of the author of this message.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-single) > (attribute) choices > (attribute) message > (attribute) role>)
annotations: List[Attributes]
Annotations for the message, when applicable, as when using the
[web search tool](https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/tools-web-search?api-mode=chat).
type: String
The type of the URL citation. Always `url\_citation`.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-single) > (attribute) choices > (attribute) message > (attribute) annotations > (attribute) type>)
url\_citation: Attributes
A URL citation when using web search.
end\_index: Int64
The index of the last character of the URL citation in the message.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-single) > (attribute) choices > (attribute) message > (attribute) annotations > (attribute) url_citation > (attribute) end_index>)
start\_index: Int64
The index of the first character of the URL citation in the message.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-single) > (attribute) choices > (attribute) message > (attribute) annotations > (attribute) url_citation > (attribute) start_index>)
title: String
The title of the web resource.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-single) > (attribute) choices > (attribute) message > (attribute) annotations > (attribute) url_citation > (attribute) title>)
url: String
The URL of the web resource.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-single) > (attribute) choices > (attribute) message > (attribute) annotations > (attribute) url_citation > (attribute) url>)
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-single) > (attribute) choices > (attribute) message > (attribute) annotations > (attribute) url_citation>)
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-single) > (attribute) choices > (attribute) message > (attribute) annotations>)
audio: Attributes
If the audio output modality is requested, this object contains data
about the audio response from the model. [Learn more](https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/audio).
id: String
Unique identifier for this audio response.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-single) > (attribute) choices > (attribute) message > (attribute) audio > (attribute) id>)
data: String
Base64 encoded audio bytes generated by the model, in the format
specified in the request.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-single) > (attribute) choices > (attribute) message > (attribute) audio > (attribute) data>)
expires\_at: Int64
The Unix timestamp (in seconds) for when this audio response will
no longer be accessible on the server for use in multi-turn
conversations.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-single) > (attribute) choices > (attribute) message > (attribute) audio > (attribute) expires_at>)
transcript: String
Transcript of the audio generated by the model.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-single) > (attribute) choices > (attribute) message > (attribute) audio > (attribute) transcript>)
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-single) > (attribute) choices > (attribute) message > (attribute) audio>)
Deprecatedfunction\_call: Attributes
Deprecated and replaced by `tool\_calls`. The name and arguments of a function that should be called, as generated by the model.
arguments: String
The arguments to call the function with, as generated by the model in JSON format. Note that the model does not always generate valid JSON, and may hallucinate parameters not defined by your function schema. Validate the arguments in your code before calling your function.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-single) > (attribute) choices > (attribute) message > (attribute) function_call > (attribute) arguments>)
name: String
The name of the function to call.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-single) > (attribute) choices > (attribute) message > (attribute) function_call > (attribute) name>)
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-single) > (attribute) choices > (attribute) message > (attribute) function_call>)
tool\_calls: List[Attributes]
The tool calls generated by the model, such as function calls.
id: String
The ID of the tool call.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-single) > (attribute) choices > (attribute) message > (attribute) tool_calls > (attribute) id>)
function: Attributes
The function that the model called.
arguments: String
The arguments to call the function with, as generated by the model in JSON format. Note that the model does not always generate valid JSON, and may hallucinate parameters not defined by your function schema. Validate the arguments in your code before calling your function.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-single) > (attribute) choices > (attribute) message > (attribute) tool_calls > (attribute) function > (attribute) arguments>)
name: String
The name of the function to call.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-single) > (attribute) choices > (attribute) message > (attribute) tool_calls > (attribute) function > (attribute) name>)
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-single) > (attribute) choices > (attribute) message > (attribute) tool_calls > (attribute) function>)
type: String
The type of the tool. Currently, only `function` is supported.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-single) > (attribute) choices > (attribute) message > (attribute) tool_calls > (attribute) type>)
custom: Attributes
The custom tool that the model called.
input: String
The input for the custom tool call generated by the model.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-single) > (attribute) choices > (attribute) message > (attribute) tool_calls > (attribute) custom > (attribute) input>)
name: String
The name of the custom tool to call.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-single) > (attribute) choices > (attribute) message > (attribute) tool_calls > (attribute) custom > (attribute) name>)
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-single) > (attribute) choices > (attribute) message > (attribute) tool_calls > (attribute) custom>)
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-single) > (attribute) choices > (attribute) message > (attribute) tool_calls>)
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-single) > (attribute) choices > (attribute) message>)
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-single) > (attribute) choices>)
usage: Attributes
Usage statistics for the completion request.
completion\_tokens: Int64
Number of tokens in the generated completion.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-single) > (attribute) usage > (attribute) completion_tokens>)
prompt\_tokens: Int64
Number of tokens in the prompt.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-single) > (attribute) usage > (attribute) prompt_tokens>)
total\_tokens: Int64
Total number of tokens used in the request (prompt + completion).
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-single) > (attribute) usage > (attribute) total_tokens>)
completion\_tokens\_details: Attributes
Breakdown of tokens used in a completion.
accepted\_prediction\_tokens: Int64
When using Predicted Outputs, the number of tokens in the
prediction that appeared in the completion.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-single) > (attribute) usage > (attribute) completion_tokens_details > (attribute) accepted_prediction_tokens>)
audio\_tokens: Int64
Audio input tokens generated by the model.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-single) > (attribute) usage > (attribute) completion_tokens_details > (attribute) audio_tokens>)
reasoning\_tokens: Int64
Tokens generated by the model for reasoning.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-single) > (attribute) usage > (attribute) completion_tokens_details > (attribute) reasoning_tokens>)
rejected\_prediction\_tokens: Int64
When using Predicted Outputs, the number of tokens in the
prediction that did not appear in the completion. However, like
reasoning tokens, these tokens are still counted in the total
completion tokens for purposes of billing, output, and context window
limits.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-single) > (attribute) usage > (attribute) completion_tokens_details > (attribute) rejected_prediction_tokens>)
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-single) > (attribute) usage > (attribute) completion_tokens_details>)
prompt\_tokens\_details: Attributes
Breakdown of tokens used in the prompt.
audio\_tokens: Int64
Audio input tokens present in the prompt.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-single) > (attribute) usage > (attribute) prompt_tokens_details > (attribute) audio_tokens>)
cached\_tokens: Int64
Cached tokens present in the prompt.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-single) > (attribute) usage > (attribute) prompt_tokens_details > (attribute) cached_tokens>)
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-single) > (attribute) usage > (attribute) prompt_tokens_details>)
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-single) > (attribute) usage>)
### openai\_chat\_completion
Terraform
HTTP
HTTP
TypeScript
TypeScript
Python
Python
Java
Java
Go
Go
Ruby
Ruby
Terraform
Terraform
```
`data "openai\_chat\_completion" "example\_chat\_completion" {
completion\_id = "completion\_id"
}
`
```
#### data openai\_chat\_completions
##### optional Expand Collapse
model?: String
The model used to generate the Chat Completions.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) model>)
metadata?: Map[String]
A list of metadata keys to filter the Chat Completions by. Example:
`metadata[key1]=value1&metadata[key2]=value2`
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) metadata>)
order?: String
Sort order for Chat Completions by timestamp. Use `asc` for ascending order or `desc` for descending order. Defaults to `asc`.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) order>)
max\_items?: Int64
Max items to fetch, default: 1000
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) max_items>)
##### computed Expand Collapse
items: List[Attributes]
The items returned by the data source
id: String
A unique identifier for the chat completion.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) id>)
choices: List[Attributes]
A list of chat completion choices. Can be more than one if `n` is greater than 1.
finish\_reason: String
The reason the model stopped generating tokens. This will be `stop` if the model hit a natural stop point or a provided stop sequence,
`length` if the maximum number of tokens specified in the request was reached,
`content\_filter` if content was omitted due to a flag from our content filters,
`tool\_calls` if the model called a tool, or `function\_call` (deprecated) if the model called a function.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) choices > (attribute) finish_reason>)
index: Int64
The index of the choice in the list of choices.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) choices > (attribute) index>)
logprobs: Attributes
Log probability information for the choice.
content: List[Attributes]
A list of message content tokens with log probability information.
token: String
The token.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) choices > (attribute) logprobs > (attribute) content > (attribute) token>)
bytes: List[Int64]
A list of integers representing the UTF-8 bytes representation of the token. Useful in instances where characters are represented by multiple tokens and their byte representations must be combined to generate the correct text representation. Can be `null` if there is no bytes representation for the token.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) choices > (attribute) logprobs > (attribute) content > (attribute) bytes>)
logprob: Float64
The log probability of this token, if it is within the top 20 most likely tokens. Otherwise, the value `-9999.0` is used to signify that the token is very unlikely.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) choices > (attribute) logprobs > (attribute) content > (attribute) logprob>)
top\_logprobs: List[Attributes]
List of the most likely tokens and their log probability, at this token position. In rare cases, there may be fewer than the number of requested `top\_logprobs` returned.
token: String
The token.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) choices > (attribute) logprobs > (attribute) content > (attribute) top_logprobs > (attribute) token>)
bytes: List[Int64]
A list of integers representing the UTF-8 bytes representation of the token. Useful in instances where characters are represented by multiple tokens and their byte representations must be combined to generate the correct text representation. Can be `null` if there is no bytes representation for the token.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) choices > (attribute) logprobs > (attribute) content > (attribute) top_logprobs > (attribute) bytes>)
logprob: Float64
The log probability of this token, if it is within the top 20 most likely tokens. Otherwise, the value `-9999.0` is used to signify that the token is very unlikely.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) choices > (attribute) logprobs > (attribute) content > (attribute) top_logprobs > (attribute) logprob>)
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) choices > (attribute) logprobs > (attribute) content > (attribute) top_logprobs>)
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) choices > (attribute) logprobs > (attribute) content>)
refusal: List[Attributes]
A list of message refusal tokens with log probability information.
token: String
The token.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) choices > (attribute) logprobs > (attribute) refusal > (attribute) token>)
bytes: List[Int64]
A list of integers representing the UTF-8 bytes representation of the token. Useful in instances where characters are represented by multiple tokens and their byte representations must be combined to generate the correct text representation. Can be `null` if there is no bytes representation for the token.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) choices > (attribute) logprobs > (attribute) refusal > (attribute) bytes>)
logprob: Float64
The log probability of this token, if it is within the top 20 most likely tokens. Otherwise, the value `-9999.0` is used to signify that the token is very unlikely.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) choices > (attribute) logprobs > (attribute) refusal > (attribute) logprob>)
top\_logprobs: List[Attributes]
List of the most likely tokens and their log probability, at this token position. In rare cases, there may be fewer than the number of requested `top\_logprobs` returned.
token: String
The token.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) choices > (attribute) logprobs > (attribute) refusal > (attribute) top_logprobs > (attribute) token>)
bytes: List[Int64]
A list of integers representing the UTF-8 bytes representation of the token. Useful in instances where characters are represented by multiple tokens and their byte representations must be combined to generate the correct text representation. Can be `null` if there is no bytes representation for the token.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) choices > (attribute) logprobs > (attribute) refusal > (attribute) top_logprobs > (attribute) bytes>)
logprob: Float64
The log probability of this token, if it is within the top 20 most likely tokens. Otherwise, the value `-9999.0` is used to signify that the token is very unlikely.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) choices > (attribute) logprobs > (attribute) refusal > (attribute) top_logprobs > (attribute) logprob>)
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) choices > (attribute) logprobs > (attribute) refusal > (attribute) top_logprobs>)
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) choices > (attribute) logprobs > (attribute) refusal>)
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) choices > (attribute) logprobs>)
message: Attributes
A chat completion message generated by the model.
content: String
The contents of the message.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) choices > (attribute) message > (attribute) content>)
refusal: String
The refusal message generated by the model.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) choices > (attribute) message > (attribute) refusal>)
role: String
The role of the author of this message.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) choices > (attribute) message > (attribute) role>)
annotations: List[Attributes]
Annotations for the message, when applicable, as when using the
[web search tool](https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/tools-web-search?api-mode=chat).
type: String
The type of the URL citation. Always `url\_citation`.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) choices > (attribute) message > (attribute) annotations > (attribute) type>)
url\_citation: Attributes
A URL citation when using web search.
end\_index: Int64
The index of the last character of the URL citation in the message.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) choices > (attribute) message > (attribute) annotations > (attribute) url_citation > (attribute) end_index>)
start\_index: Int64
The index of the first character of the URL citation in the message.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) choices > (attribute) message > (attribute) annotations > (attribute) url_citation > (attribute) start_index>)
title: String
The title of the web resource.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) choices > (attribute) message > (attribute) annotations > (attribute) url_citation > (attribute) title>)
url: String
The URL of the web resource.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) choices > (attribute) message > (attribute) annotations > (attribute) url_citation > (attribute) url>)
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) choices > (attribute) message > (attribute) annotations > (attribute) url_citation>)
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) choices > (attribute) message > (attribute) annotations>)
audio: Attributes
If the audio output modality is requested, this object contains data
about the audio response from the model. [Learn more](https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/audio).
id: String
Unique identifier for this audio response.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) choices > (attribute) message > (attribute) audio > (attribute) id>)
data: String
Base64 encoded audio bytes generated by the model, in the format
specified in the request.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) choices > (attribute) message > (attribute) audio > (attribute) data>)
expires\_at: Int64
The Unix timestamp (in seconds) for when this audio response will
no longer be accessible on the server for use in multi-turn
conversations.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) choices > (attribute) message > (attribute) audio > (attribute) expires_at>)
transcript: String
Transcript of the audio generated by the model.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) choices > (attribute) message > (attribute) audio > (attribute) transcript>)
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) choices > (attribute) message > (attribute) audio>)
Deprecatedfunction\_call: Attributes
Deprecated and replaced by `tool\_calls`. The name and arguments of a function that should be called, as generated by the model.
arguments: String
The arguments to call the function with, as generated by the model in JSON format. Note that the model does not always generate valid JSON, and may hallucinate parameters not defined by your function schema. Validate the arguments in your code before calling your function.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) choices > (attribute) message > (attribute) function_call > (attribute) arguments>)
name: String
The name of the function to call.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) choices > (attribute) message > (attribute) function_call > (attribute) name>)
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) choices > (attribute) message > (attribute) function_call>)
tool\_calls: List[Attributes]
The tool calls generated by the model, such as function calls.
id: String
The ID of the tool call.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) choices > (attribute) message > (attribute) tool_calls > (attribute) id>)
function: Attributes
The function that the model called.
arguments: String
The arguments to call the function with, as generated by the model in JSON format. Note that the model does not always generate valid JSON, and may hallucinate parameters not defined by your function schema. Validate the arguments in your code before calling your function.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) choices > (attribute) message > (attribute) tool_calls > (attribute) function > (attribute) arguments>)
name: String
The name of the function to call.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) choices > (attribute) message > (attribute) tool_calls > (attribute) function > (attribute) name>)
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) choices > (attribute) message > (attribute) tool_calls > (attribute) function>)
type: String
The type of the tool. Currently, only `function` is supported.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) choices > (attribute) message > (attribute) tool_calls > (attribute) type>)
custom: Attributes
The custom tool that the model called.
input: String
The input for the custom tool call generated by the model.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) choices > (attribute) message > (attribute) tool_calls > (attribute) custom > (attribute) input>)
name: String
The name of the custom tool to call.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) choices > (attribute) message > (attribute) tool_calls > (attribute) custom > (attribute) name>)
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) choices > (attribute) message > (attribute) tool_calls > (attribute) custom>)
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) choices > (attribute) message > (attribute) tool_calls>)
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) choices > (attribute) message>)
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) choices>)
created: Int64
The Unix timestamp (in seconds) of when the chat completion was created.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) created>)
model: String
The model used for the chat completion.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) model>)
object: String
The object type, which is always `chat.completion`.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) object>)
service\_tier: String
Specifies the processing type used for serving the request.
* If set to ‘auto’, then the request will be processed with the service tier configured in the Project settings. Unless otherwise configured, the Project will use ‘default’.
* If set to ‘default’, then the request will be processed with the standard pricing and performance for the selected model.
* If set to ‘[flex](https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/flex-processing)’ or ‘[priority](https://openai.com/api-priority-processing/)’, then the request will be processed with the corresponding service tier.
* When not set, the default behavior is ‘auto’.
When the `service\_tier` parameter is set, the response body will include the `service\_tier` value based on the processing mode actually used to serve the request. This response value may be different from the value set in the parameter.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) service_tier>)
Deprecatedsystem\_fingerprint: String
This fingerprint represents the backend configuration that the model runs with.
Can be used in conjunction with the `seed` request parameter to understand when backend changes have been made that might impact determinism.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) system_fingerprint>)
usage: Attributes
Usage statistics for the completion request.
completion\_tokens: Int64
Number of tokens in the generated completion.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) usage > (attribute) completion_tokens>)
prompt\_tokens: Int64
Number of tokens in the prompt.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) usage > (attribute) prompt_tokens>)
total\_tokens: Int64
Total number of tokens used in the request (prompt + completion).
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) usage > (attribute) total_tokens>)
completion\_tokens\_details: Attributes
Breakdown of tokens used in a completion.
accepted\_prediction\_tokens: Int64
When using Predicted Outputs, the number of tokens in the
prediction that appeared in the completion.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) usage > (attribute) completion_tokens_details > (attribute) accepted_prediction_tokens>)
audio\_tokens: Int64
Audio input tokens generated by the model.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) usage > (attribute) completion_tokens_details > (attribute) audio_tokens>)
reasoning\_tokens: Int64
Tokens generated by the model for reasoning.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) usage > (attribute) completion_tokens_details > (attribute) reasoning_tokens>)
rejected\_prediction\_tokens: Int64
When using Predicted Outputs, the number of tokens in the
prediction that did not appear in the completion. However, like
reasoning tokens, these tokens are still counted in the total
completion tokens for purposes of billing, output, and context window
limits.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) usage > (attribute) completion_tokens_details > (attribute) rejected_prediction_tokens>)
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) usage > (attribute) completion_tokens_details>)
prompt\_tokens\_details: Attributes
Breakdown of tokens used in the prompt.
audio\_tokens: Int64
Audio input tokens present in the prompt.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) usage > (attribute) prompt_tokens_details > (attribute) audio_tokens>)
cached\_tokens: Int64
Cached tokens present in the prompt.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) usage > (attribute) prompt_tokens_details > (attribute) cached_tokens>)
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) usage > (attribute) prompt_tokens_details>)
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) usage>)
[](<#(resource) chat.completions > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items>)
### openai\_chat\_completions
Terraform
HTTP
HTTP
TypeScript
TypeScript
Python
Python
Java
Java
Go
Go
Ruby
Ruby
Terraform
Terraform
```
`data "openai\_chat\_completions" "example\_chat\_completions" {
metadata = {
foo = "string"
}
model = "model"
}
`
```
#### ChatCompletionsMessages
Given a list of messages comprising a conversation, the model will return a response.
#### data openai\_chat\_completion\_messages
##### required Expand Collapse
completion\_id: String
[](<#(resource) chat.completions.messages > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) completion_id>)
##### optional Expand Collapse
order?: String
Sort order for messages by timestamp. Use `asc` for ascending order or `desc` for descending order. Defaults to `asc`.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions.messages > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) order>)
max\_items?: Int64
Max items to fetch, default: 1000
[](<#(resource) chat.completions.messages > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) max_items>)
##### computed Expand Collapse
items: List[Attributes]
The items returned by the data source
content: String
The contents of the message.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions.messages > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) content>)
refusal: String
The refusal message generated by the model.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions.messages > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) refusal>)
role: String
The role of the author of this message.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions.messages > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) role>)
annotations: List[Attributes]
Annotations for the message, when applicable, as when using the
[web search tool](https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/tools-web-search?api-mode=chat).
type: String
The type of the URL citation. Always `url\_citation`.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions.messages > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) annotations > (attribute) type>)
url\_citation: Attributes
A URL citation when using web search.
end\_index: Int64
The index of the last character of the URL citation in the message.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions.messages > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) annotations > (attribute) url_citation > (attribute) end_index>)
start\_index: Int64
The index of the first character of the URL citation in the message.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions.messages > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) annotations > (attribute) url_citation > (attribute) start_index>)
title: String
The title of the web resource.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions.messages > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) annotations > (attribute) url_citation > (attribute) title>)
url: String
The URL of the web resource.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions.messages > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) annotations > (attribute) url_citation > (attribute) url>)
[](<#(resource) chat.completions.messages > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) annotations > (attribute) url_citation>)
[](<#(resource) chat.completions.messages > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) annotations>)
audio: Attributes
If the audio output modality is requested, this object contains data
about the audio response from the model. [Learn more](https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/audio).
id: String
Unique identifier for this audio response.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions.messages > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) audio > (attribute) id>)
data: String
Base64 encoded audio bytes generated by the model, in the format
specified in the request.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions.messages > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) audio > (attribute) data>)
expires\_at: Int64
The Unix timestamp (in seconds) for when this audio response will
no longer be accessible on the server for use in multi-turn
conversations.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions.messages > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) audio > (attribute) expires_at>)
transcript: String
Transcript of the audio generated by the model.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions.messages > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) audio > (attribute) transcript>)
[](<#(resource) chat.completions.messages > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) audio>)
Deprecatedfunction\_call: Attributes
Deprecated and replaced by `tool\_calls`. The name and arguments of a function that should be called, as generated by the model.
arguments: String
The arguments to call the function with, as generated by the model in JSON format. Note that the model does not always generate valid JSON, and may hallucinate parameters not defined by your function schema. Validate the arguments in your code before calling your function.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions.messages > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) function_call > (attribute) arguments>)
name: String
The name of the function to call.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions.messages > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) function_call > (attribute) name>)
[](<#(resource) chat.completions.messages > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) function_call>)
tool\_calls: List[Attributes]
The tool calls generated by the model, such as function calls.
id: String
The ID of the tool call.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions.messages > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) tool_calls > (attribute) id>)
function: Attributes
The function that the model called.
arguments: String
The arguments to call the function with, as generated by the model in JSON format. Note that the model does not always generate valid JSON, and may hallucinate parameters not defined by your function schema. Validate the arguments in your code before calling your function.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions.messages > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) tool_calls > (attribute) function > (attribute) arguments>)
name: String
The name of the function to call.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions.messages > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) tool_calls > (attribute) function > (attribute) name>)
[](<#(resource) chat.completions.messages > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) tool_calls > (attribute) function>)
type: String
The type of the tool. Currently, only `function` is supported.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions.messages > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) tool_calls > (attribute) type>)
custom: Attributes
The custom tool that the model called.
input: String
The input for the custom tool call generated by the model.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions.messages > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) tool_calls > (attribute) custom > (attribute) input>)
name: String
The name of the custom tool to call.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions.messages > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) tool_calls > (attribute) custom > (attribute) name>)
[](<#(resource) chat.completions.messages > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) tool_calls > (attribute) custom>)
[](<#(resource) chat.completions.messages > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) tool_calls>)
id: String
The identifier of the chat message.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions.messages > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) id>)
content\_parts: List[Attributes]
If a content parts array was provided, this is an array of `text` and `image\_url` parts.
Otherwise, null.
text: String
The text content.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions.messages > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) content_parts > (attribute) text>)
type: String
The type of the content part.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions.messages > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) content_parts > (attribute) type>)
image\_url: Attributes
url: String
Either a URL of the image or the base64 encoded image data.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions.messages > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) content_parts > (attribute) image_url > (attribute) url>)
detail: String
Specifies the detail level of the image. Learn more in the [Vision guide](https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/vision#low-or-high-fidelity-image-understanding).
[](<#(resource) chat.completions.messages > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) content_parts > (attribute) image_url > (attribute) detail>)
[](<#(resource) chat.completions.messages > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) content_parts > (attribute) image_url>)
[](<#(resource) chat.completions.messages > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) content_parts>)
[](<#(resource) chat.completions.messages > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items>)
### openai\_chat\_completion\_messages
Terraform
HTTP
HTTP
TypeScript
TypeScript
Python
Python
Java
Java
Go
Go
Ruby
Ruby
Terraform
Terraform
```
`data "openai\_chat\_completion\_messages" "example\_chat\_completion\_messages" {
completion\_id = "completion\_id"
}
`
```