Embeddings | OpenAI API Reference
[Skip to content](#_top)
[API Reference](/api/reference/java)
Copy Markdown
Open in **Claude**
Open in **ChatGPT**
Open in **Cursor**
**Copy Markdown**
**View as Markdown**
# Embeddings
Get a vector representation of a given input that can be easily consumed by machine learning models and algorithms.
##### [Create embeddings](/api/reference/java/resources/embeddings/methods/create)
[CreateEmbeddingResponse](</api/reference/java/resources/embeddings#(resource) embeddings > (model) create_embedding_response > (schema)>) embeddings().create(EmbeddingCreateParamsparams, RequestOptionsrequestOptions = RequestOptions.none())
POST/embeddings
##### ModelsExpand Collapse
class CreateEmbeddingResponse:
List\<[Embedding](</api/reference/java/resources/embeddings#(resource) embeddings > (model) embedding > (schema)>)\> data
The list of embeddings generated by the model.
List\<double\> embedding
The embedding vector, which is a list of floats. The length of vector depends on the model as listed in the [embedding guide](https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/embeddings).
[](<#(resource) embeddings > (model) embedding > (schema) > (property) embedding>)
long index
The index of the embedding in the list of embeddings.
[](<#(resource) embeddings > (model) embedding > (schema) > (property) index>)
JsonValue; object\_ "embedding"constant"embedding"constant
The object type, which is always “embedding”.
[](<#(resource) embeddings > (model) embedding > (schema) > (property) object>)
[](<#(resource) embeddings > (model) create_embedding_response > (schema) > (property) data>)
String model
The name of the model used to generate the embedding.
[](<#(resource) embeddings > (model) create_embedding_response > (schema) > (property) model>)
JsonValue; object\_ "list"constant"list"constant
The object type, which is always “list”.
[](<#(resource) embeddings > (model) create_embedding_response > (schema) > (property) object>)
Usage usage
The usage information for the request.
long promptTokens
The number of tokens used by the prompt.
[](<#(resource) embeddings > (model) create_embedding_response > (schema) > (property) usage > (property) prompt_tokens>)
long totalTokens
The total number of tokens used by the request.
[](<#(resource) embeddings > (model) create_embedding_response > (schema) > (property) usage > (property) total_tokens>)
[](<#(resource) embeddings > (model) create_embedding_response > (schema) > (property) usage>)
[](<#(resource) embeddings > (model) create_embedding_response > (schema)>)
class Embedding:
Represents an embedding vector returned by embedding endpoint.
List\<double\> embedding
The embedding vector, which is a list of floats. The length of vector depends on the model as listed in the [embedding guide](https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/embeddings).
[](<#(resource) embeddings > (model) embedding > (schema) > (property) embedding>)
long index
The index of the embedding in the list of embeddings.
[](<#(resource) embeddings > (model) embedding > (schema) > (property) index>)
JsonValue; object\_ "embedding"constant"embedding"constant
The object type, which is always “embedding”.
[](<#(resource) embeddings > (model) embedding > (schema) > (property) object>)
[](<#(resource) embeddings > (model) embedding > (schema)>)
enum EmbeddingModel:
TEXT\_EMBEDDING\_ADA\_002("text-embedding-ada-002")
[](<#(resource) embeddings > (model) embedding_model > (schema) > (member) 0>)
TEXT\_EMBEDDING\_3\_SMALL("text-embedding-3-small")
[](<#(resource) embeddings > (model) embedding_model > (schema) > (member) 1>)
TEXT\_EMBEDDING\_3\_LARGE("text-embedding-3-large")
[](<#(resource) embeddings > (model) embedding_model > (schema) > (member) 2>)
[](<#(resource) embeddings > (model) embedding_model > (schema)>)