Messages | OpenAI API Reference
[Skip to content](#_top)
[API Reference](/api/reference/terraform)
[Chat](/api/reference/terraform/resources/chat)
[Completions](/api/reference/terraform/resources/chat/subresources/completions)
Copy Markdown
Open in **Claude**
Open in **ChatGPT**
Open in **Cursor**
**Copy Markdown**
**View as Markdown**
# Messages
Given a list of messages comprising a conversation, the model will return a response.
#### data openai\_chat\_completion\_messages
##### required Expand Collapse
completion\_id: String
[](<#(resource) chat.completions.messages > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) completion_id>)
##### optional Expand Collapse
order?: String
Sort order for messages by timestamp. Use `asc` for ascending order or `desc` for descending order. Defaults to `asc`.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions.messages > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) order>)
max\_items?: Int64
Max items to fetch, default: 1000
[](<#(resource) chat.completions.messages > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) max_items>)
##### computed Expand Collapse
items: List[Attributes]
The items returned by the data source
content: String
The contents of the message.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions.messages > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) content>)
refusal: String
The refusal message generated by the model.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions.messages > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) refusal>)
role: String
The role of the author of this message.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions.messages > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) role>)
annotations: List[Attributes]
Annotations for the message, when applicable, as when using the
[web search tool](https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/tools-web-search?api-mode=chat).
type: String
The type of the URL citation. Always `url\_citation`.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions.messages > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) annotations > (attribute) type>)
url\_citation: Attributes
A URL citation when using web search.
end\_index: Int64
The index of the last character of the URL citation in the message.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions.messages > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) annotations > (attribute) url_citation > (attribute) end_index>)
start\_index: Int64
The index of the first character of the URL citation in the message.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions.messages > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) annotations > (attribute) url_citation > (attribute) start_index>)
title: String
The title of the web resource.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions.messages > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) annotations > (attribute) url_citation > (attribute) title>)
url: String
The URL of the web resource.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions.messages > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) annotations > (attribute) url_citation > (attribute) url>)
[](<#(resource) chat.completions.messages > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) annotations > (attribute) url_citation>)
[](<#(resource) chat.completions.messages > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) annotations>)
audio: Attributes
If the audio output modality is requested, this object contains data
about the audio response from the model. [Learn more](https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/audio).
id: String
Unique identifier for this audio response.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions.messages > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) audio > (attribute) id>)
data: String
Base64 encoded audio bytes generated by the model, in the format
specified in the request.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions.messages > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) audio > (attribute) data>)
expires\_at: Int64
The Unix timestamp (in seconds) for when this audio response will
no longer be accessible on the server for use in multi-turn
conversations.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions.messages > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) audio > (attribute) expires_at>)
transcript: String
Transcript of the audio generated by the model.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions.messages > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) audio > (attribute) transcript>)
[](<#(resource) chat.completions.messages > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) audio>)
Deprecatedfunction\_call: Attributes
Deprecated and replaced by `tool\_calls`. The name and arguments of a function that should be called, as generated by the model.
arguments: String
The arguments to call the function with, as generated by the model in JSON format. Note that the model does not always generate valid JSON, and may hallucinate parameters not defined by your function schema. Validate the arguments in your code before calling your function.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions.messages > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) function_call > (attribute) arguments>)
name: String
The name of the function to call.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions.messages > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) function_call > (attribute) name>)
[](<#(resource) chat.completions.messages > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) function_call>)
tool\_calls: List[Attributes]
The tool calls generated by the model, such as function calls.
id: String
The ID of the tool call.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions.messages > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) tool_calls > (attribute) id>)
function: Attributes
The function that the model called.
arguments: String
The arguments to call the function with, as generated by the model in JSON format. Note that the model does not always generate valid JSON, and may hallucinate parameters not defined by your function schema. Validate the arguments in your code before calling your function.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions.messages > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) tool_calls > (attribute) function > (attribute) arguments>)
name: String
The name of the function to call.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions.messages > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) tool_calls > (attribute) function > (attribute) name>)
[](<#(resource) chat.completions.messages > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) tool_calls > (attribute) function>)
type: String
The type of the tool. Currently, only `function` is supported.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions.messages > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) tool_calls > (attribute) type>)
custom: Attributes
The custom tool that the model called.
input: String
The input for the custom tool call generated by the model.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions.messages > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) tool_calls > (attribute) custom > (attribute) input>)
name: String
The name of the custom tool to call.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions.messages > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) tool_calls > (attribute) custom > (attribute) name>)
[](<#(resource) chat.completions.messages > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) tool_calls > (attribute) custom>)
[](<#(resource) chat.completions.messages > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) tool_calls>)
id: String
The identifier of the chat message.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions.messages > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) id>)
content\_parts: List[Attributes]
If a content parts array was provided, this is an array of `text` and `image\_url` parts.
Otherwise, null.
text: String
The text content.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions.messages > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) content_parts > (attribute) text>)
type: String
The type of the content part.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions.messages > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) content_parts > (attribute) type>)
image\_url: Attributes
url: String
Either a URL of the image or the base64 encoded image data.
[](<#(resource) chat.completions.messages > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) content_parts > (attribute) image_url > (attribute) url>)
detail: String
Specifies the detail level of the image. Learn more in the [Vision guide](https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/vision#low-or-high-fidelity-image-understanding).
[](<#(resource) chat.completions.messages > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) content_parts > (attribute) image_url > (attribute) detail>)
[](<#(resource) chat.completions.messages > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) content_parts > (attribute) image_url>)
[](<#(resource) chat.completions.messages > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items > (attribute) content_parts>)
[](<#(resource) chat.completions.messages > (terraform datasource-plural) > (attribute) items>)
### openai\_chat\_completion\_messages
Terraform
HTTP
HTTP
TypeScript
TypeScript
Python
Python
Java
Java
Go
Go
Ruby
Ruby
Terraform
Terraform
```
`data "openai\_chat\_completion\_messages" "example\_chat\_completion\_messages" {
completion\_id = "completion\_id"
}
`
```