Embeddings | OpenAI API Reference
[Skip to content](#_top)
[API Reference](/api/reference/typescript)
Copy Markdown
Open in **Claude**
Open in **ChatGPT**
Open in **Cursor**
**Copy Markdown**
**View as Markdown**
# Embeddings
Get a vector representation of a given input that can be easily consumed by machine learning models and algorithms.
##### [Create embeddings](/api/reference/typescript/resources/embeddings/methods/create)
client.embeddings.create(EmbeddingCreateParams { input, model, dimensions, 2 more } body, RequestOptionsoptions?): [CreateEmbeddingResponse](</api/reference/typescript/resources/embeddings#(resource) embeddings > (model) create_embedding_response > (schema)>) { data, model, object, usage }
POST/embeddings
##### ModelsExpand Collapse
CreateEmbeddingResponse { data, model, object, usage }
data: Array\<[Embedding](</api/reference/typescript/resources/embeddings#(resource) embeddings > (model) embedding > (schema)>) { embedding, index, object } \>
The list of embeddings generated by the model.
embedding: Array\<number\>
The embedding vector, which is a list of floats. The length of vector depends on the model as listed in the [embedding guide](https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/embeddings).
[](<#(resource) embeddings > (model) embedding > (schema) > (property) embedding>)
index: number
The index of the embedding in the list of embeddings.
[](<#(resource) embeddings > (model) embedding > (schema) > (property) index>)
object: "embedding"
The object type, which is always “embedding”.
[](<#(resource) embeddings > (model) embedding > (schema) > (property) object>)
[](<#(resource) embeddings > (model) create_embedding_response > (schema) > (property) data>)
model: string
The name of the model used to generate the embedding.
[](<#(resource) embeddings > (model) create_embedding_response > (schema) > (property) model>)
object: "list"
The object type, which is always “list”.
[](<#(resource) embeddings > (model) create_embedding_response > (schema) > (property) object>)
usage: Usage { prompt\_tokens, total\_tokens }
The usage information for the request.
prompt\_tokens: number
The number of tokens used by the prompt.
[](<#(resource) embeddings > (model) create_embedding_response > (schema) > (property) usage > (property) prompt_tokens>)
total\_tokens: number
The total number of tokens used by the request.
[](<#(resource) embeddings > (model) create_embedding_response > (schema) > (property) usage > (property) total_tokens>)
[](<#(resource) embeddings > (model) create_embedding_response > (schema) > (property) usage>)
[](<#(resource) embeddings > (model) create_embedding_response > (schema)>)
Embedding { embedding, index, object }
Represents an embedding vector returned by embedding endpoint.
embedding: Array\<number\>
The embedding vector, which is a list of floats. The length of vector depends on the model as listed in the [embedding guide](https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/embeddings).
[](<#(resource) embeddings > (model) embedding > (schema) > (property) embedding>)
index: number
The index of the embedding in the list of embeddings.
[](<#(resource) embeddings > (model) embedding > (schema) > (property) index>)
object: "embedding"
The object type, which is always “embedding”.
[](<#(resource) embeddings > (model) embedding > (schema) > (property) object>)
[](<#(resource) embeddings > (model) embedding > (schema)>)
EmbeddingModel = "text-embedding-ada-002" | "text-embedding-3-small" | "text-embedding-3-large"
One of the following:
"text-embedding-ada-002"
[](<#(resource) embeddings > (model) embedding_model > (schema) > (member) 0>)
"text-embedding-3-small"
[](<#(resource) embeddings > (model) embedding_model > (schema) > (member) 1>)
"text-embedding-3-large"
[](<#(resource) embeddings > (model) embedding_model > (schema) > (member) 2>)
[](<#(resource) embeddings > (model) embedding_model > (schema)>)