Backward compatible, forever
[Aperture beta is now available. Start building with AI safely in minutes.READ MORE -\>](https://tailscale.com/blog/aperture-public-beta)
[Blog](/blog)|companyMarch 25, 2025
# Backward compatible, forever
Today we're launching Tailscale Community Projects — easy-to-use, reliable tools built by us and our community. But this post isn't just about new toys. It's about how we got here, why stability matters more than constant upgrades, and what that means for the future of your infrastructure.
Today we're announcing [Tailscale Community Projects](https://tailscale.com/community/community-projects) — projects by ourselves and our community that work well with Tailscale, are easy to collaborate on, and will* keep working* if you adopt them.
That's an unusual set of promises. Let's talk about why.
## [Stopping the upgrade treadmill](#stopping-the-upgrade-treadmill)
You might not even notice it anymore: the pervasive idea that, if you stop upgrading software, it'll eventually break. Or at least become a security hole. Or unsupported by the vendor. Or, I don't even know what, but definitely something bad. Old software is bad. So you'd better upgrade.
That applies recursively across every application. If an app depends on a framework that has been updated, well, the app vendor had better update the framework. And if that breaks the app, well, the vendor has to change the app. And so you'd better upgrade the app.
Modern apps and frameworks have hundreds of dependencies, and all those dependencies are on an upgrade treadmill. A dependency might change every week, or every day, or more. If bad things will happen unless you *continuously* upgrade, then you'd better get processes in place to do that. Now you need a full time devops team, continuous deployment, and continuous integration... just to stand still.
Well, almost stand still. New versions of apps also move buttons around, change APIs, break old APIs, deprecate features, charge you more money for features you didn't ask for, and occasionally get abandoned by the vendor and never upgraded again — which means you have to migrate off them in a hurry, because the upgrade treadmill never stops, even if at the end of the treadmill there's a cliff of despair. And that cliff is, mercifully, the end of my metaphor.
At Tailscale we're taking a different path which I call, "But what if we didn't?"
What does it take to stop that recursive upgrade treadmill in its tracks? I think it needs to work like this:
* I won't upgrade the app
* ***Because I'm certain that only people I trust [[1]](/blog/community-projects#footnote-1)*** ***can access the app***
* And so security holes in the app don't matter [[2]](/blog/community-projects#footnote-2)
* And even if those supposedly trusted people exploit the holes, they can't move laterally from there to attack other places in my network
* ***And the platform the app runs on will be backward compatible forever***
* And therefore the libraries and frameworks my app depends on will also work forever
* And therefore I only need to upgrade if I actually want new features
* And even if I do want new features, I can modify the app without upgrading a bunch of frameworks
* Unless I really want the features in new versions of the frameworks.
Phew. That whole liberating chain depends on two items that I bolded above.
First, **only people I trust can access the app.** That doesn't make security holes go away; it just makes them irrelevant. One of the founding principles of Tailscale is [Remembering the LAN](https://tailscale.com/blog/remembering-the-lan): before the Internet, security holes didn't matter because nobody was there to exploit them. With appropriate security measures, we can bring that world back. In security terms, there's strong evidence that multiple "good" layers of security are [not as good as a single comprehensive layer of security](https://cr.yp.to/qmail/qmailsec-20071101.pdf). You really can put all your eggs in one basket. But, guard that basket.
Second, the **platform the app runs on will be backward compatible forever.** Forever. If the underlying platform's ABI changes — whatever level you define "platform" at — it triggers a cascade of upgrades that could be visible all the way back to the surface.
We're trained to be paranoid about security holes at every layer. As a natural consequence, platforms must always change — every time there's a hole. And therefore no platform can ever be stable, and therefore the upgrade treadmill is *[systematically](https://apenwarr.ca/log/20201227) inevitable*.
But it's not true.
## [Stable platforms exist, but are expensive to maintain](#stable-platforms-exist-but-are-expensive-to-maintain)
If we look at platforms in the tech world, we can find examples that don't follow the pattern of breaking stuff all the time, even when they get upgraded with new features and security fixes. It's not a coincidence that these are the platforms almost everything is built on.
* The compute platform: x86 (and nowadays, modern arm64[[3]](/blog/community-projects#footnote-3))
* OS platforms: DOS. Win32/Win64. [Linux kernel ABIs](https://www.reddit.com/r/linusrants/comments/wqociv/linus_rants_about_glibc_breaking_compatibility/). [[4]](/blog/community-projects#footnote-4)
* The web platform: HTML and [Javascript ](https://tabu-craig.medium.com/my-worst-javascript-features-465378d5ad43)(and now wasm)
For all of these platforms, some central company or committee puts an [astonishing amount of work](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/oldnewthing/20061106-01/?p=29123) into making sure stuff stays compatible year after year, version after version, forever, even when [painful architectural security holes need plugging](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Meltdown_(security_vulnerability)) or the [original idea really sucked](https://tabu-craig.medium.com/my-worst-javascript-features-465378d5ad43).
Even when a platform dies off — as DOS did, and win32 did, and x86 probably will eventually — the things built on those platforms survive thanks to emulation. It's so valuable to keep platforms intact that we insert a new compatible layer underneath the defunct platform to transparently fix what's on top.
It's really expensive to maintain these stable platforms. So why do people do it? Because it's also really profitable. In fact, it's a survivorship trait: the only platforms that survive, long term, are the ones that do this.
Every time a vendor breaks their platform, they give you two choices: upgrade to their new thing, or upgrade to someone else's new thing. Every time "just stick with it" becomes a choice, they lose some people. Vendors who keep their platform stable benefit from the overwhelming majority, people who are satisfied with the status quo. Most people simply have better things to do than switch away from a working platform with a working solution on top.
## [The Internet is a platform](#the-internet-is-a-platform)
In my list of stable platforms above, I missed one: TCP/IP.
The history is fascinating. TCP-over-IPv4 has persisted since the 1980s, through uncountable numbers of hardware platforms, OSes, reimplementations, optimizations, congestion control algorithms, security fixes, workarounds, extensions, middle boxes, proxies, and NATs. And yet, if you wrote a program in 1983 using TCP over IPv4, and you run it today in an emulated computer from that era, chances are it can talk to a 2025 iPhone, 42 years later. Wow. Now that's stable.
But, as I wrote in [The New Internet](https://tailscale.com/blog/new-internet), the Internet platform has been so stable for so long that its oldest design flaws are really holding us back. Our long battle to deploy the incompatible[[5]](/blog/community-projects#footnote-5) IPv6 — you were the chosen one! — has left the original and still-dominant IPv4 mostly as it was, with an ever-growing pile of hacks on top.
We can do better. And, we can do better without breaking anything.
## [Tailscale is a stable platform](#tailscale-is-a-stable-platform)
We don't talk about it much, but when we started Tailscale we made a few quiet promises to ourselves. [[6]](/blog/community-projects#footnote-6)
First, [we would never break any client release](https://www.lastweekinaws.com/podcast/screaming-in-the-cloud/the-magic-of-tailscale-with-avery-pennarun/) that people were still using.[[7]](/blog/community-projects#footnote-7)
Second, that we would never break any of our public-facing [coordination server APIs](https://tailscale.com/kb/1101/api) or [policy file syntax](https://tailscale.com/kb/1018/acls).
Third, we would clearly identify which set of APIs in our [Tailscale client in Go](https://github.com/tailscale/tailscale) that we promised not to break. (And conversely, which you shouldn't touch because they were implementation details.)
Fourth, we would find some way to support [both IPv4 and IPv6](https://tailscale.com/kb/1121/ipv6), for every node that wants it, forever. Including [transparently cross-connecting between the two](https://tailscale.com/kb/1201/4via6-subnets). And regardless of what shape the public Internet takes (pure IPv4, pure IPv6, or some new thing).
Fifth, we would integrate security into what already exists, in an application-transparent way. Old-school IPv4 apps like telnet, ftp, rsh, and SMB are hopelessly insecure on the public Internet. But on Tailscale they're totally safe to use. We fixed the glitch by adding end-to-end encryption and identity. And without modifying any app, any protocol, or any part further up the stack.
As a result, people who deployed a Tailscale node onto an embedded device at a factory three years ago won't have nasty surprises when they take it out of the box three years from now.[[9]](/blog/community-projects#footnote-9) It'll work fine (assuming you set its [key expiry](https://tailscale.com/kb/1028/key-expiry) correctly :))
## [We dogfooded our own Tailscale platform](#we-dogfooded-our-own-tailscale-platform)
Right, so, that was a long setup for what can now be a shorter payoff.
At Tailscale over the years, we've built several small tools that depend on our core product. Some of these are written by one person and only sporadically maintained, even though we use them heavily in production.
In most situations, "sporadically maintained" would be a little scary. You can't use that, right? Can you really rely on a tool that isn't updated every week to keep up with all its dependencies? Well, if it's on Tailscale, then: yes. We do, and you can too. It's awesome. We want to share that awesomeness with you.
For the Tailscale-owned tools below, I'm going to make a bold combination of claims.
* They are **not maintained** (except if we really do find an exploitable security hole... or when we feel like it).
* But, they **are supported.**
Let's read that again. Normally it's the other way around. Typically, popular projects are heavily maintained, but you still won't get official help when you ask, unless you pay up. But Tailscale offers [free email support for our products for everyone, even free users](https://tailscale.com/blog/free-plan), and starting today, this extends to our community projects.[[11]](/blog/community-projects#footnote-11)
Yes, we'll help you get these tools working on your tailnet. Since the tools aren't officially maintained, we can't guarantee new features or even bug fixes. They're provided as-is. But, they work. And even more importantly, once you get them working, they're going to keep working, no exceptions.[[12]](/blog/community-projects#footnote-12) That's the promise.
Of course, patches are welcome. Tailscale's core does the [hard parts](https://tailscale.com/blog/how-tailscale-works) (backward compatibility, connectivity, [NAT traversal](https://tailscale.com/blog/how-nat-traversal-works), authentication, and authorization), and we know it can be hairy to contribute to that. By comparison, these community projects tend to be fun and easy to fork and hack on. They make excellent toys, templates for new toys, or starter projects for new open source developers.
## [Avery's favourite Tailscale community projects](#averys-favourite-tailscale-community-projects)
Okay, so today we're launching the first batch of projects. Some of these have been out there for a while, but in many cases they've been *\<cough\>* only lightly documented or they had big warning signs on them, or it wasn't clear whether they were maintained or trustworthy. We've put some work into fixing up all those issues so you can feel safer about playing with them.
Here are some of my favourites!
* The [**JIT accessbot**](https://tailscale.com/blog/jit-access-ga) is an excellent, straightforward example of how to host a Slackbot on your tailnet that can call into Tailscale and Slack APIs. The current version uses our [enterprise device posture APIs](https://tailscale.com/api#tag/devices/POST/device/{deviceId}/attributes/{attributeKey}) (also available on personal plans) to temporarily adjust device postures after a request/approval process, which then affects access rights. But you can straightforwardly modify it to cause whatever tailnet changes you want based on whatever triggers you want, or whatever UI you want.
* [**setec**](https://github.com/tailscale/setec) is a sort of "safety deposit box" *\<ahem\>* for your keys and other secrets. The hardest part of storing secrets is bootstrapping: where do you put the key you'll use to authenticate yourself to the secrets store? And once you've got all that done, do you really need another secrets store or can you just use that one? But with Tailscale, we already do the auth for you, which means the hard bootstrap problem is solved already. That means setec can be really simple; it's just a secure key/value store and some config settings for who can read and write which things. It's also a great example of how to write an app that's configured by Tailscale using [ACL Grants](https://tailscale.com/blog/acl-grants).
* [**tsidp**](https://github.com/tailscale/tailscale/tree/main/cmd/tsidp) is the world's smallest OIDC provider. Every Tailscale packet has an identity attached. But, not every app knows how to read that identity from Tailscale. On the other hand, lots of apps know how to auth against an OIDC provider. So, tsidp bridges the two. Ask it for an OIDC key, and it gives you one instantly, because it already knows who you are. And, it even works with apps outside your tailnet (like other people's SaaS apps!), if you export it over [Tailscale Funnel](https://tailscale.com/kb/1223/funnel). And best of all, nobody can track which apps you use with your tsidp identity — because you, not we, are the identity provider. As always with Tailscale and Funnel, your traffic is end-to-end encrypted and we can't decrypt it ourselves.[[13]](/blog/community-projects#footnote-13)
* [**golink**](https://github.com/tailscale/golink) is an example of how to make trivial apps using Tailscale's built-in auth, built-in https, and MagicDNS. Install golink in a container somewhere, and then for everyone on your tailnet, you can make memorable "go/whatever" links that redirect to whatever URL you want. No browser extensions needed. Also, um, we would appreciate patches that make it prettier.
* **[tclip](https://github.com/tailscale-dev/tclip) **is a privately hosted pastebin alternative with a trivial command-line client. Cut and paste text from the command line, and share it with others. The command line tool requires no login, no keys or tokens, and no magic strings, because thanks to Tailscale, the server always knows it's you.
* The [**Tailscale plugin for Caddy**](https://github.com/tailscale/caddy-tailscale) makes it easy to publish internal services publicly using your own domain name, complete with automatic LetsEncrypt certs and forwarding to your tailnet.#### [To check out the whole list of tools and extensions, take a look at our brand new and shiny [**Community Projects home page**](https://tailscale.com/community/community-projects).](#to-check-out-the-whole-list-of-tools-and-extensions-take-a-look-at-our-brand-new-and-shiny-community-projects-home-page)
Enjoy living in the future! And please send us your comments on [bluesky](https://bsky.app/profile/tailscale.com), [twitter... sorry, X](https://twitter.com/tailscale), [Mastodon](https://hachyderm.io/@tailscale), [Linkedin](https://www.linkedin.com/company/tailscale), or if none of those work for you, maybe try carrier pigeon or a message in a bottle.
### [
Footnotes](#footnotes)
[1] If you can't trust your coworkers, then you have a different problem, which no amount of software upgrading will fix.
[2] This whole article is about small app instances for your friends and coworkers, not public-facing SaaS apps open for attack on the public Internet. For big scalable apps you need big scalable security. But for apps only your coworkers can access, you don't.
[3] For a long time, ARM was an embedded architecture almost as
[famous for incompatible variants](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_ARM_processors) as MIPS was. Luckily they seem to have gotten over that bad habit and now you can compile "for arm64" and get binaries that work consistently on lots of devices.
[4] But not macOS and iOS, they [unapologetically break stuff all the time](https://developer.apple.com/forums/thread/763864). Linux userspace gives a half-hearted try but it's not good enough, which is how containers got popular.
[5] IPv6 made the classic mistake of being incompatible with the old platform, so people had to choose whether to stick (works right now) or switch (does not work right now). Sure enough, [IPv6 adoption has been slow for 25 years now](https://blog.apnic.net/2024/10/22/the-ipv6-transition/). This is a [chicken-egg problem](https://apenwarr.ca/log/20201227).
[6] They were quiet because we weren't sure we'd be able to keep them, and it's always embarrassing to miss a commitment. We're more confident about them now, years later.
[7] By the way, this is slightly more achievable than it sounds. Our coordination server is "roll-forward," [[8]](#footnote-8) which means new server versions need to support old clients, but new clients do not need to support old servers; they will never see an old server. That means validation testing overhead can be O(n) with the number of client versions, not O(m\*n) with the number of (server, client) version pairs.
[8] The exception is people's headscale deployments, which we can't guarantee will always understand new clients. Sorry. We do put effort into automated testing against headscale. But it's impossible to keep up with the O(m\*n) testing required to make every combination perfect. If you use headscale, you need to keep at least that component on your upgrade treadmill. This is a good idea anyway, since it's the only public-facing component, which billions of untrusted people have the opportunity to attack.
[9] There are some tricks to make this safe. Core Tailscale only has two kinds of ports [[10]](#footnote-10) facing the public network: outgoing connections to the coordination server, which are secure as long as TLS and the coordination server are secure; and incoming connections via WireGuard, which is so simple that the [WireGuard protocol has never had security holes reported since it came out 10 years ago](https://tailscale.com/kb/1028/key-expiry).
[10] Other Tailscale incoming ports, like [Tailscale SSH](https://tailscale.com/kb/1193/tailscale-ssh) and [Taildrop](https://tailscale.com/kb/1106/taildrop), can be selectively disabled by the coordination server per-node based on client software version, in case we find a critical bug. So far this has never been necessary, thanks partly to [Go's memory-safe programming model](https://xeiaso.net/shitposts/no-way-to-prevent-this/CVE-2025-0725/).
[11] Yes, I get as much internal eyebrow-raising for that as you'd expect. But it helps us maintain an insanely high quality bar that keeps getting higher. And yes, our gross margins are still healthy despite that promise, because fans who get great free support become superfans who tell you they got great free support. Also, our support team are a bunch of heroes. Next time you talk to them, please tell them Avery says thanks.
[12] At least, we won't be the ones to break them. If they call other people's APIs (for example, our [JIT accessbot](https://tailscale.com/blog/jit-access-ga) needs to call Slack APIs) then we can't stop other people from breaking or deprecating their APIs. Or, if your container platform can't make up its mind, then that's not our fault either.
[13] The more you think about this, the more fun it becomes. Don't like third-party providers like Google knowing which apps you log into? You can use Google, Microsoft, or Okta to log into your Tailscale account using their highly secure top-level IdPs. But then you can use tsidp to log into everything else, so the only app they ever know about is Tailscale. Combine this with Tailnet lock and your entire SSO chain is protected against breaches of the Tailscale coordination server and against breaches at your chosen SSO provider [[14]](#footnote-14).
[14] There's one little exception. Since Tailscale Funnel issues the TLS cert for your externally-facing tsidp and we own the [ts.net](https://ts.net) domain, a breach of the Tailscale coordination service could cascade into a breach of your tsidp cert. If you don't trust us, you can eliminate this dependency by skipping Funnel, using your own domain instead of ts.net, and instead hosting your own public-facing server with TLS certificates entirely under your control.
Share
Author
Avery Pennarun
Author
Avery Pennarun
Share
Loading...
## Try Tailscale for free
[
Get started
](https://login.tailscale.com/start)
Schedule a demo
[
Contact sales
](/contact/sales)